mountain pose is a good start for any
beginner's first yoga session
stand up straight with your toes
together your arms are in line with your
body
focus on breathing elongate the body
during inhales
and bring your shoulder blades back to
normal on each exhale
this seemingly simple pose involves
major leg muscles
and improves your concentration next is
the slightly more difficult tree pose
well slightly more than slightly stand
with your feet together
palms joined in front of your chest
shift your body weight to one
foot bend the opposite knee and press
the sole of that foot against your inner
thigh
if you get good at balancing like that
try to slowly lift
your arms above your head rest assured
that you're toning
all the right muscles abs obliques inner
and outer thighs
all the way down to your calves let's
move on to the tabletop position
great for your abs and build stability
in your back
get down on all fours with your arms
straight and your belly pulled in
flex your abs to keep your back as
straight as possible
now you can shift into the cat and cow
positions
perfect for anyone who sits a lot
because it relaxes your back muscles
start on all fours again hips should
align with your knees
and your wrists are below your shoulders
drop your belly down
and raise your tailbone congrats you're
now in the cow position
okay curve your back as you exhale to
transition into the cat position
while you're there look at your belly
button that'll help you know you're
doing the pose right
keep going from one to the other at
least five times
let's relax a little with the child's
pose it gives you a nice stretch in your
hips and shoulders
start by sitting on the ground with your
heels under your rear
which you call your butt slowly bend
forward and bring your chest toward your
knees
rest your forehead on the ground or a
small cushion
stretch your arms up over your head
along the floor
and relax your back it's not recommended
for people with knee problems
but you can modify the pose to make it
safer
just sit on a small block instead of
your feet
you can also put a folded blanket or
pillow behind the knees to
decrease the tension now it's time for
downward facing dog the ultimate full
body stretcher
from your shoulders down your back
further to your glutes
hammies calves all the way down to the
arches of your feet
you can start this one from the table
top position
tuck your toes under raise your knees
off the ground
and lift your hips toward the ceiling
try to get your heels to touch the
ground
if it's too hard feel free to bend your
knees a bit and work your way up to
straightening your legs
keep your neck straight you should be
able to see the back of your mat
from there we go into the half pigeon
pose
stretch your left leg up and bring it
back underneath your body
bend that knee at 90 degrees so your
calf is lying in front of your hips
keep your hips squared facing straight
ahead your right leg is extended behind
you
hold the pose for at least five breaths
and repeat on the other leg
this is a great way to improve blood
flow and loosen tension in the hips
now you can transition into the upward
facing dog
get into a full arm plank and lower
yourself into a push-up
your elbows should form 90 degree angles
then bring your hips down so that they
almost touch the floor
at the same time straighten your elbows
and push your chest forward
if you feel more tension than you can
handle for now you can bring the knees
down
upward facing dog helps improve posture
and stimulates the abdominal organs
now let's practice some beginner
friendly folds
the forward fold activates your abs and
helps stretch your back
you go into this one from downward
facing dog
by walking your hands back toward your
feet
now if that's too challenging start by
standing up straight with your feet hip
width apart
put your hands on your hips and slowly
bend forward
depending on your flexibility you might
be able to touch your knees
shins or even the floor try to keep your
knees straight
if you can't at first it's okay to bend
them and work your way up
for the seated fold sit straight with
your leg stretched out before you
your feet should align with the spine
stretch your arms to the ceiling
and slowly bend down toward your feet
you may not be able to touch your toes
at first reaching your knees is okay too
the most important thing is to keep your
back straight each time you practice
you'll reach further and further as soon
as you get to the point where you just
can't bend anymore
bring your chin down bridge pose is a
must if you have an office job
or work from home and sit at a computer
all day
if you have neck problems best to avoid
this one
if not then lie down with your arms at
your sides
now start slowly raising your hips
toward the ceiling
ideally you should get a 90 degree angle
in the knees
work those glutes to keep your chest and
belly lifted
this pose stretches major muscles in the
neck spine hips and chest
it can even help with digestive issues
let's move into cobra pose
start by lying on your belly all your
body should be stretched and lengthened
when you inhale start raising your chest
as you straighten your elbows
keep your hips pressed into the floor
you're not lifting them like in the
upward facing dog
push your ribs forward and keep the
shoulder blades together
beginners can usually hold this pose for
about 15 seconds
if you can manage it for 30 even better
and now the half lotus pose sit on the
ground with your legs straight
bring your right knee up to your chest
hug it and place it on your left thigh
the sole of your foot should face up now
bend your left knee to bring that foot
under your right thigh
for the full lotus pose you'll have both
feet resting on the opposite
thigh for now work at mastering one leg
at a time
and work your way up as you build
flexibility
now if there's any yoga exercise you
should incorporate into your daily
routine
it's sun salutations there are 10 quick
easy steps
start with an exhale in mountain pose
inhale and raise your arms to the sky
go into a forward bend on your exhale
lift your body halfway up as you breathe
in keep that back straight
exhale and move your feet back into a
push-up position
inhale as you glide into an upward
facing dog
breathe out and transition into downward
another halfway lift on this inhale
one more forward bend on the exhale
inhale and raise your arms to the sun
again
memorize this sequence and do it every
day first thing in the morning
it'll warm up your body and you'll feel
more energized for the day ahead
if you're looking to burn calories
improve flexibility
and build lean muscle yoga could be
exactly what you need
you can definitely lose some pounds and
torch away stubborn belly fat
a yoga sesh may not be the most intense
workout
but its main purpose is to keep all
muscles fit and tone
it also has different difficulty levels
from beginner to advanced
if you're just starting out don't even
attempt the advanced poses
yoga is logical and progressive you
start from the easier poses
and gradually work your way toward the
difficult ones
funny enough one of the most challenging
poses is called the
savasana it might look like someone just
lying on the ground doing nothing
but don't be fooled the key to mastery
is relaxing
every single muscle in the body and
emptying the mind
that's a lot harder than it sounds but
once you get it
this pose trains your body to release
stress
it even improves your physical and
emotional well-being